LAWS OF KENYA
DATA PROTECTION ACT
THE DATA PROTECTION (GENERAL) REGULATIONS, 2021
LEGAL NOTICE 263 OF 2021

    Published in Kenya Gazette Vol. CXXIV—No. 6 on 14 January 2022
    Commenced on 14 January 2022

Part I – PRELIMINARY
1. Citation
These Regulations may be cited as the Data Protection (General) Regulations, 2021.
2. Interpretation
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—“Act” means the Data Protection Act, 2019 (No. 24 of 2019);“Data Commissioner” means the person appointed as such pursuant to section 6 of the Act; and“Office” has the meaning assigned to it under the Act.
3. Exemption
These Regulations shall not apply to civil registration entities specified under the Data Protection (Civil Registration) Regulations, 2020 (L.N. 196/2020).
Part II – ENABLING THE RIGHTS OF A DATA SUBJECT
4. Processing on the basis of consent
(1)Where processing is based on consent in accordance with section 32 of the Act, a data controller or data processor shall, in seeking consent prior to the processing, inform the data subject of—
(a)the identity of the data controller or data processor;
(b)the purpose of each of the processing operations for which consent is sought;
(c)the type of personal data that is collected and used;
(d)information about the use of the personal data for automated decision-making, where relevant;
(e)the possible risks of data transfers due to absence of an adequacy decision or appropriate safeguards;
(f)whether the personal data processed shall be shared with third parties;
(g)the right to withdraw consent; and
(h)the implications of providing, withholding or withdrawing consent.
(2)The information under sub-regulation (1) may be presented to the data subject through a written notice, oral statement, audio or video message.
(3)In obtaining consent from a data subject, a data controller or a data processor shall ensure that the—
(a)data subject has capacity to give consent;
(b)data subject voluntarily gives consent; and
(c)consent is specific to the purpose of processing.
(4)Pursuant to section 32(4) of the Act, consent shall be considered to have been given freely, unless where —
(a)it is presumed on the basis that the data subject did not object to a proposal to processing of their personal data in a particular manner;
(b)it is presented as a non-negotiable part of the terms and conditions for processing;
(c)the data subject is unable to refuse or withdraw their consent without detriment;
(d)the data controller or data processor merges several purposes for processing without seeking specific consent for each purpose; or
(e)the intention of the data subject is ambiguous.
(5)Where the data subject withdraws consent to any part of the processing, the data controller or data processor shall restrict the part of the processing in respect of which consent is withdrawn, subject to section 34 of the Act.
5. Lawful basis for processing
(1)A data controller or data processor may process data without consent of a data subject if the processing is necessary for any reason set out in section 30(1) (b) of the Act.
(2)Processing under sub-regulation (1) shall only rely on one legal basis for processing at a time, which shall be established before the processing.
(3)The legal basis relied on under sub-regulation (1) shall be demonstrable at all times and where a data controller uses multiple bases for different processing, the data controller shall—
(a)distinguish between the legal bases being used; and
(b)respond to any data subject rights requests.
6. Mode of collection of personal data
(1)Pursuant to section 28(2) of the Act, a data controller or data processor may collect personal data indirectly from—
(a)any person other than the data subject;
(b)publications or databases;
(c)surveillance cameras, where an individual is identifiable or reasonably identifiable;
(d)information associated with web browsing; or
(e)biometric technology, including voice or facial recognition.
(2)A data controller or data processor shall, in collecting personal data—
(a)ensure that processing is limited to personal data which the data subject has permitted the data controller or data processor to collect;
(b)undertake steps to ensure that personal data is accurate, not in excessive and up to date;
(c)undertake processes to secure personal data; and
(d)comply with the lawful processing principles set out under Part IV of the Act.
(3)Where a data controller or data processor collects personal data indirectly, the data controller or data processor shall within fourteen days inform the data subject of the collection.
(4)Where a data controller or data processor intends to use personal data for a new purpose, the data controller or data processor shall ensure that the new purpose is compatible with the initial purpose for which the personal data was collected.
(5)Where the new purpose is not compatible with the initial purpose, a data controller or data processor shall seek fresh consent from the data subject in accordance with regulation 4.
7. Restriction to processing
(1)Pursuant to section 34 of the Act, a data subject may request a data controller or data processor to restrict the processing of their personal data on grounds that—
(a)the data subject contests the accuracy of their personal data;
(b)the personal data has been unlawfully processed and the data subject opposes the erasure and requests restriction instead;
(c)the data subject no longer needs their personal data but the data controller or data processor requires the personal data to be kept in order to establish, exercise or defend a legal claim; or
(d)a data subject has objected to the processing of their personal data under regulation 8 and a data controller or data processor is considering legitimate grounds that override those of the data subject.
(2)A request for restriction to processing of personal data on any of the grounds provided under section 34 of the Act may be made in Form DPG 1 set out in the First Schedule.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall within fourteen days of the request for restriction pursuant to sub-regulation (2), and without charging any fee—
(a)admit and implement the request;
(b)indicate on the data controller or data processors system that the processing of the personal data has been restricted; and
(c)notify any relevant third party of the restriction where personal data, subject to such restriction, may have been shared.
(4)A data controller or a data processor may implement a restriction to processing request by—
(a)temporarily moving the personal data to another processing system;
(b)making the personal data unavailable to third parties; or
(c)temporarily removing published data specific to the data subject from its website or other public medium in its control.
(5)A data controller or data processor may decline to comply with a request for restriction in processing, where such request is manifestly unfounded or excessive.
(6)Where a data controller or data processor declines a request on any of the grounds provided under section 34(2) of the Act, the data controller or data processor shall within fourteen days of the refusal, notify the data subject of the refusal, in writing, and shall provide the reasons for the decision.
(7)A data controller or data processor shall not process personal data that has been restricted, except to store the personal data, in accordance with section 34(2)(a) of the Act.
8. Objection to processing
(1)Pursuant to section 36 of the Act, a data subject may request a data controller or data processor not to process all or part of their personal data, for a specified purpose or in a specified manner.
(2)A request to object the processing may be made in Form DPG 1 set out in the First schedule.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall, without charging any fee, comply with a request for objection under sub-regulation (2) within fourteen days of the request.
(4)The right to object to processing applies as an absolute right where the processing is for direct marketing purposes which includes profiling to the extent that it is related to such direct marketing.
(5)Where the data subject objects to processing for direct marketing purposes, the personal data shall not be processed for such purposes.
(6)Where the right to object to processing is not absolute and the request by a data subject has been declined, the data controller or data processor shall inform the data subject of—
(a)the reasons for declining the request for objection; and
(b)the right to lodge a complaint to the Data Commissioner where dissatisfied.
(7)Where a data controller or data processor demonstrates compelling legitimate interest for the processing which overrides the data subject’s interests, or for the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim, the data controller or data processor shall inform the data subject of—
(a)the reasons for declining the request for objection; and
(b)the right to lodge a complaint to the Data Commissioner where dissatisfied.
9. Data access request
(1)A data subject has a right to obtain from the data controlleror data processor confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning them is being processed, and, where that is the case, access to the personal data and the information as to—
(a)the purposes of the processing;
(b)the categories of personal data concerned;
(c)the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed, including recipients in other countries or territories;
(d)where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data may be stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine that period; and
(e)where the personal data is not collected from the data subject, any available information as to the source of collection.
(2)A data subject may request to access their personal data in Form DPG 2 set out in the First Schedule.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall—
(a)on request, provide access to a data subject of their personal data in its possession;
(b)put in place mechanisms to enable a data subject to proactively access or examine their personal data; or
(c)provide the data subject with a copy of their personal data.
(4)A data controller or a data processor shall comply with a request by a data subject to access their personal data within seven days of the of the request.
(5)Where the data subject makes the request by electronic means, and unless otherwise requested by the data subject, the information shall be provided in a commonly used electronic form.
(6)Compliance with a request for access to personal data shall be free of charge.
10. Rectification of personal data
(1)Pursuant to section 40 of the Act, a data subject may request a data controller or data processor to rectify their personal data, which is untrue, inaccurate, outdated, incomplete or misleading.
(2)A request for rectification may be made in Form DPG 3 set out in the First Schedule.
(3)An application for rectification of personal data may be supported by such documents as may be relevant to the rectification sought.
(4)A data controller or data processor shall within fourteen days of the request, rectify an entry of personal data in the database where the data controller or data processor is satisfied that a rectification is necessary.
(5)Where a request for rectification is declined, a data controller or data processor shall, in writing, notify a data subject of that refusal within seven days and shall provide reasons for refusal.
(6)A request for rectification shall made free of charge.
11. Data portability request.
(1)Pursuant to section 38 of the Act, a data subject may apply to port or copy their personal data from one data controller or data processor to another.
(2)A request for data portability may be made in Form DPG 4set out in the First Schedule.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall within thirty days of the request and upon payment of the prescribed fees port personal data to the data subject’s choice of recipient.
(4)Where fee is charged under sub-regulation (2), the fee shall be reasonable and not exceed the cost incurred to actualize the request.
(5)A data controller or data processor who receives personal data that has been ported shall, with respect to such data, comply with the requirement of the Act and these Regulations.
(6)Where a data controller or data processor declines the portability request, a data controller or data processor shall, within seven days, notify the data subject of the decline and the reasons for such decline in writing.
(7)The exercise of the right to data portability by a data subject shall not negate the rights of a data subject provided under the Act.
12. Right of erasure
(1)Pursuant to section 40 (1) (b) of the Act, a data subject may, request a data controller or data processor to erase or destroy personal data held by the data controller or data processor where —
(a)the personal data is no longer necessary for the purpose which it was collected;
(b)the data subject withdraws their consent that was the lawful basis for retaining the personal data;
(c)the data subject objects to the processing of their data and there is no overriding legitimate interest to continue the processing;
(d)the processing of personal data is for direct marketing purposes and the individual objects to that processing;
(e)the processing of personal data is unlawful including in breach of the lawfulness requirement; or
(f)the erasure is necessary to comply with a legal obligation.
(2)A data subject may request for erasure of their personal data held by a data controller or data processor in Form DPG5 set out in the First Schedule.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall respond to a request for erasure under sub-regulation (2) within fourteen days of the request.
(4)A right of erasure does not apply if processing is necessary for one of the following reasons—
(a)to exercise the right of freedom of expression and information;
(b)to comply with a legal obligation;
(c)for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority;
(d)for archiving purposes in the public interest, scientific research, historical research or statistical purposes where erasure is likely to render impossible or seriously impair the achievement of that processing; or
(e)for the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim.
(5)A request for erasure shall be free of charge.
13. Exercise of rights by others
(1)Subject to section 27 of the Act, where a person duly authorised by a data subject seeks to exercise the rights on their behalf, the data controller or data processor shall act in the best interests of the data subject.
(2)Where the data subject is a child, a data controller or data processor shall ensure that—
(a)a person exercising the right is appropriately identified;
(b)profiling of a child that is related to direct marketing is prohibited; and
(c)the parent or guardian is informed of the inherent risks in processing and the safeguards put in place.
(3)Where a data controller or a data processor is uncertain as to the existence of a relationship between the duly authorised person and the data subject, the data controller or data processor may restrict the request of exercising a right on behalf of the data subject until evidence to the contrary is adduced.
Part III – RESTRICTIONS ON THE COMMERCIAL USE OF PERSONAL DATA
14. Interpretation of commercial purposes
(1)For the purposes of section 37 (1) of the Act, a data controller or data processor shall be considered to use personal data for commercial purposes where personal data of a data subject is used to advance commercial or economic interests, including inducing another person to buy, rent, lease, join, subscribe to, provide or exchange products, property, information or services, or enabling or effecting, directly or indirectly, a commercial transaction.
(2)A data controller or data processor is considered to use personal data to advance commercial interests where personal data is used for direct marketing through—
(a)sending a catalogue through any medium addressed to a data subject;
(b)displaying an advertisement on an online media site where a data subject is logged on using their personal data; or
(c)sending an electronic message to a data subject about a sale, or other advertising material relating to a sale, using personal data provided by a data subject.
(3)Marketing is not direct where personal data is not used or disclosed to identify or target particular recipients.
15. Permitted commercial use of personal data
(1)A data controller or data processor may use personal data, other than sensitive personal data, concerning a data subject for the purpose of direct marketing where—
(a)the data controller or data processor has collected the personal data from the data subject;
(b)a data subject is notified that direct marketing is one of the purposes for which personal data is collected;
(c)the data subject has consented to the use or disclosure of the personal data for the purpose of direct marketing;
(d)the data controller or data processor provides a simplified opt out mechanism for the data subject to request not to receive direct marketing communications; or
(e)the data subject has not made an opt out request.
(2)A data controller or data processor shall not transmit, for the purposes of direct marketing, messages by any means unless the data controller or data processor indicates particulars to which a data subject may send a request to restrict such communications without incurring charges.
(3)A person shall neither transmit, nor instigate the transmission of, a communication for the purposes of direct marketing by means ofelectronic mail—
(a)where the identity of the person on whose behalf the communication has been sent has been disguised or concealed;
(b)where a valid address to which the recipient of the communication may send a request that such communications cease has not been provided; or
(c)where there is use of automated calling systems without human intervention.
(4)A data controller or data processor who uses personal data for commercial purposes without the consent of the data subject commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand shillings or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or to both fine and imprisonment.
16. Features of an opt out message
(1)An opt out mechanism contemplated under regulation 15(1)(d) shall—
(a)have a visible, clear and easily understood explanation of how to opt out;
(b)include a process for opting out that requires minimal time and effort;
(c)provide a direct and accessible communication channel;
(d)be free of charge or where necessary involve a nominal cost to a data subject; and
(e)be accessible to persons with a disability.
(2)Where a data subject has opted out, a data controller or data processor shall not use or disclose their personal data for the purpose of direct marketing, in accordance with the data subject’s request.
17. Mechanisms to comply with opt out requirement
(1)In communicating with a data subject on direct marketing, a data controller or data processor shall include a statement which is prominently displayed, or otherwise draws the attention of the data subject to the fact that the data subject may make an opt out request.
(2)A data controller or data processor may, in complying with an opt out requirement—
(a)clearly indicate, in each direct marketing message, that a data subject may opt out of receiving future messages by replying with a single word instruction in the subject line;
(b)ensure that a link is prominently located in the email, which takes a data subject to a subscription control centre;
(c)clearly indicate that a data subject may opt out of future direct marketing by replying to a direct marketing text message with a single word instruction;
(d)inform the recipient of a direct marketing phone call that they can verbally opt out from any future calls; and
(e)include instructions on how to opt out from future direct marketing, in each message.
(3)A data controller or a data processor may use an opt out mechanism that provides a data subject with the opportunity to indicate their direct marketing communication preferences, including the extent to which they wish to opt out.
(4)Despite sub-regulation (3), a data controller or data processor shall provide a data subject with an option to opt out of all future direct marketing communications as one of outlined preferences.
18. Request for restriction of further direct marketing
(1)A data subject may request a data controller or data processor to restrict use or disclosure of their personal data, to a third party, for the purpose of facilitating direct marketing.
(2)No fee shall be charged to a data subject for making or giving effect to a request under this Part.
(3)A data controller or data processor shall restrict use or disclosure of personal data for the purpose of facilitating direct marketing by a third party within seven days of the request.
Part IV – OBLIGATIONS OF DATA CONTROLLERS AND DATA PROCESSORS
19. Retention of personal data
(1)Pursuant to section 39 of the Act, a data controller or data processor shall retain personal data processed for a lawful purpose, for as long as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose for which the personal data is processed.
(2)A data controller or data processor shall—
(a)establish personal data retention schedule with appropriate time limits for the periodic review of the need for the continued storage of personal data that is no longer necessary or where the retention period is reached; and
(b)erase, delete anonymise or pseudonymise personal data upon the lapse of the purpose for which the personal data was collected.
(3)A personal data retention schedule established under paragraph (2)(a) shall outline the —
(a)purpose for retention;
(b)the retention period;
(c)provision for periodic audit of the personal data retained; and
(d)actions to be taken after the audit of the personal data retained.
(4)An audit of the retained data under paragraph (3)(c), shall seek to—
(a)review records with a view of identifying personal data that no longer requires to be retained and permanently delete the personal data;
(b)ensure the retained data is accurate and up-to-date;
(c)specify the purpose for retention of personal data;
(d)ensure that the personal data security measures are adequate; and
(e)identify the best cause of action where personal data retention period lapses.
(5)A data controller or data processor shall establish appropriate time limits for the periodic review of the need for the continued storage of personal data for any of the law enforcement purposes.
(6)The personal data storage limitation period and data retention schedule outlined under paragraph (2)(a) may be included as part of the policy envisaged in regulation 23.
20. Requests to deal anonymously or pseudonymously
(1)A data subject may request a data controller or data processor to process their personal data anonymously or pseudonymously where the data subject wishes—
(a)not to be identified;
(b)to avoid subsequent contact such as direct marketing from an entity or third parties;
(c)to enhance their privacy on the whereabouts of a data subject;
(d)to access services such as counselling or health services without it becoming known to others;
(e)to express views in a public arena without being personally identified; or
(f)to minimise the risk of identity fraud.
(3)A data controller or data processor may accede to the request where satisfied that the request is based on any of the reasons specified under sub-regulation (1) and where the request is in the best interests of the data subject.
21. Sharing of personal data
(1)Subject to section 25 of the Act, a data controller or data processor may share or exchange personal data collected, upon request, by another data controller, data processor, third party or a data subject.
(2)A data controller or data processor shall determine the purpose and means of sharing personal data from one data controller or data processor to another.
(3)Data sharing outlined under this regulation may include—
(a)providing personal data to a third party by whatever means by the data controller or data processor;
(b)receiving personal data from a data controller or data processor as joint participant in a data sharing arrangement;
(c)exchanging or transmission of personal data;
(d)providing third party with access to personal data on the data controller’s information systems;
(e)separate or joint initiatives by data controllers or data processors to pool personal data making the data available to each other or a third-party subject to entering into an agreement, as may be applicable; or
(f)routine data sharing between data controllers on a regular or pre-planned basis.
(4)In carrying out any routine data sharing as contemplated under paragraph (3)(f), a data controller shall enter into agreements prior to data sharing.
(5)For the avoidance of doubt, the sharing of data within the organizational structures of a data controller or data processor is not considered as a data sharing.
(6)A request for sharing personal data under this regulation shall be in writing, and shall specify—
(a)the purpose for which personal data is required;
(b)the duration for which personal data shall be retained; and
(c)proof of the safeguards put in place to secure personal data from unlawful disclosure.
22. Automated individual decision making
(1)In this regulation—“an automated individual decision-making” means a decision made by automated means without any human involvement.
(2)Pursuant to section 35 of the Act, a data controller or data processor shall—
(a)inform a data subject when engaging in processing based on automated individual decision making;
(b)provide meaningful information about the logic involved;
(c)ensure—
(i)specific transparency and fairness requirements are in place;
(ii)rights for a data subject to oppose profiling and specifically profiling for marketing are present; and
(iii)where conditions specified under section 31 of the Act arise, a data protection impact assessment is carried out;
(d)explain the significance and envisaged consequences of the processing;
(e)ensure the prevention of errors;
(f)use appropriate mathematical or statistical procedures;
(g)put appropriate technical and organisational measures in place to correct inaccuracies and minimise the risk of errors;
(h)process personal data in a way that eliminates discriminatory effects and bias; and
(i)ensure that a data subject can obtain human intervention and express their point of view.
23. Data protection policy
(1)A data controller or data processor shall develop, publish and regularly update a policy reflecting their personal data handling practices.
(2)A policy under sub-regulation (1) may include—
(a)the nature of personal data collected and held;
(b)how a data subject may access their personal data and exercise their rights in respect to that personal data;
(c)complaints handling mechanisms;
(d)lawful purpose for processing personal data;
(e)obligations or requirements where personal data is to be transferred outside the country, to third parties, or other data controllers or data processors located outside Kenya and where possible, specify such recipients;
(f)the retention period and schedule contemplated under regulation 19; and
(g)the collection of personal data from children, and the criteria to be applied.
24. Contract between data controller and data processor
(1)Subject to section 42(2)(b) of the Act, a data controller shall engage a data processor, through a written contract.
(2)The contract envisaged under sub-regulation (1) shall include the following particulars—
(a)processing details including—
(i)the subject matter of the processing;
(ii)the duration of the processing;
(iii)the nature and purpose of the processing;
(iv)the type of personal data being processed;
(v)the categories of data subjects; and
(vi)the obligations and rights of the data controller;
(b)instructions of the data controller;
(c)duty on the data processors to obtain a commitment of confidentiality from any person or entity that the data processors allows to process the personal data;
(d)security measures subjecting the data processor to appropriate technical and organizational measures in relation to keeping personal data secure;
(e)provision stipulating that all personal data must be permanently deleted or returned on termination or lapse of the agreement, as decided by the data controller; and
(f)auditing and inspection provisions by the data controller.
25. Obligations of a data processor
(1)A data processor shall not engage the services of a third party without the prior authorisation of the data controller.
(2)Where authorisation is given, the data processor shall enter into a contract with the third party.
(3)The contract contemplated under sub-regulation (1) shall include such particulars as provided for under sub-regulation 24(2).
(4)A data processor shall remain liable to the data controller for the compliance of any third party that they engage.
26. Requirement for specified processing to be done in Kenya
(1)Pursuant to section 50 of the Act, a data controller or data processor who processes personal data for the purposeof strategic interest of the state outlined under sub-regulation (2) shall —
(a)process such personal data through a server and data centre located in Kenya; or
(b)store at least one serving copy of the concerned personal datain a data centre located in Kenya.
(2)The purpose contemplated under sub-regulation (1) includes the processing of personal data for the purpose of—
(a)administering of the civil registration and legal identity management systems;
(b)facilitating the conduct of elections for the representation of the people under the Constitution;
(c)overseeing any system for administering public finances by any state organ;
(d)running any system designated as a protected computer system in terms of section 20 of the Computer Misuse and Cybercrime Act (No. 5 of 2018);
(e)offering any form of early childhood education and basic education under the Basic Education Act (No. 14 of 2013); or
(f)provision of primary or secondary health care for a data subject in the country.
(3)Despite (2), the Cabinet Secretary may require a data controller who processes personal data outside Kenya to comply with sub-regulation (1), where the data controller—
(a)has been notified that personal data outside Kenya has been breached or its services have been used to violate the Act and has not taken measures to stop or handle the violation; and
(b)resists, obstructs or fails to comply with requests of the Data Commissioner or any other relevant authority in—
(i)cooperating to investigate and handle such violations; or
(ii)neutralising and disabling the effect of cyber security protection measures.
Part V – ELEMENTS TO IMPLEMENT DATA PROTECTION BY DESIGN OR BY DEFAULT
27. A data controller or data processor shall in processing of personal data —
(a)establish the data protection mechanisms set out under the Act and these Regulations are embedded in the processing; and
(b)design technical and organisational measures to safeguard and implement the data protection principles.
28. Elements of data protection by design or default
The elements for the protection of personal data by design or by default that are necessary to implement the data protection principles outlined under section 25 of the Act are as set out in this Part.
29. Elements for principle of lawfulness
The elements necessary to implement the principle of lawfulness include—
(a)appropriate legal basis or legitimate interests clearly connected to the specific purpose of processing;
(b)processing that is necessary for the purpose;
(c)the data subject being granted the highest degree of autonomy possible with respect to control over their personal data;
(d)a data subject knowing what they consented to and a simplified means to withdraw consent; and
(e)restriction of processing where the legal basis or legitimate interests ceases to apply.
30. Elements for principle of transparency
The elements necessary to implement the principle of transparency include—
(a)the use of clear, simple and plain language to communicate with a data subject to enable a data subject to make decisions on the processing of their personal data;
(b)making the information on the processing easily accessible to the data subject;
(c)providing the information on the processing to the data subject at the relevant time and in the appropriate form;
(d)the use of machine-readable language to facilitate and automate readability and clarity;
(e)providing a fair understanding of the expectation with regards to the processing particularly for children or other vulnerable groups; and
(f)providing details of the use and disclosure of the personal data of a data subject.
31. Elements for principle of purpose limitation
The elements necessary to implement the principle of purpose limitation include—
(a)specifying the purpose for each processing of personal data;
(b)determining the legitimate purposes for the processing of personal data before designing organisational measures and safeguards;
(c)the purpose for the processing being the determinant for personal data collected;
(d)ensuring a new purpose is compatible with the original purpose for which the data was collected;
(e)regularly reviewing whether the processing is necessary for the purposes for which the data was collected and test the design against purpose limitation; and
(f)the use of technical measures, including hashing and cryptography, to limit the possibility of repurposing personal data.
32. Elements for principle of integrity, confidentiality and availability
The elements necessary to implement the principle of integrity, confidentiality and availability include—
(a)having an operative means of managing policies and procedures for information security;
(b)assessing the risks against the security of personal data and putting in place measures to counter identified risks;
(c)processing that is robust to withstand changes, regulatory demands, incidents, and cyber-attacks;
(d)ensuring only authorised personnel have access to the data necessary for their processing tasks;
(e)securing transfers shall be secured against unauthorised access and changes;
(f)securing data storage from use, unauthorised access and alterations;
(g)keeping back-ups and logs to the extent necessary for information security;
(h)using audit trails and event monitoring as a routine security control;
(i)protecting sensitive personal data with adequate measures and, where possible, kept separate from the rest of the personal data;
(j)having in place routines and procedures to detect, handle, report, and learn from data breaches; and
(k)regularly reviewing and testing software to uncover vulnerabilities of the systems supporting the processing.
33. Elements for principle of data minimization
The elements necessary to implement the principle of data minimization include—
(a)avoiding the processing of personal data altogether when this is possible for the relevant purpose;
(b)limiting the amount of personal data collected to what is necessary for the purpose;
(c)ability to demonstrate the relevance of the data to the processing in question;
(d)pseudonymising personal data as soon as the data is no longer necessary to have directly identifiable personal data, and storing identification keys separately;
(e)anonymizing or deleting personal data where the data is no longer necessary for the purpose;
(f)making data flows efficient to avoid the creation of more copies or entry points for data collection than is necessary; and
(g)the application of available and suitable technologies for data avoidance and minimization.
34. Elements for principle of accuracy
The elements necessary to implement the principle of accuracy include—
(a)ensuring data sources are reliable in terms of data accuracy;
(b)having personal data particulars being accurate as necessary for the specified purposes;
(c)verification of the correctness of personal data with the data subject before and at different stages of the processing depending on the nature of the personal data, in relation to how often it may change;
(d)erasing or rectifying inaccurate data without delay;
(e)mitigating the effect of an accumulated error in the processing chain;
(f)giving data subjects an overview and easy access to personal data in order to control accuracy and rectify as needed;
(g)having personal data accurate at all stages of the processing and carrying out tests for accuracy at critical steps;
(h)updating personal data as necessary for the purpose; and
(i)the use of technological and organisational design features to decrease inaccuracy.
35. Elements for principle of storage limitation
The elements necessary to implement the principle of storage limitation include—
(a)having clear internal procedures for deletion and destruction;
(b)determining what data and length of storage of personal data that is necessary for the purpose;
(c)formulating internal retention statements of implementing them;
(d)ensuring that it is not possible to re-identify anonymised data or recover deleted data and testing whether this is possible;
(e)the ability to justify why the period of storage is necessary for the purpose, and disclosing the rationale behind the retention period; and
(f)determining which personal data and length of storage is necessary for back-ups and logs.
36. Elements for principle of fairness
The elements necessary to implement the principle of fairness include—
(a)granting the data subjects the highest degree of autonomy with respect to control over their personal data;
(b)enabling a data subject to communicate and exercise their rights;
(c)elimination of any discrimination against a data subject;
(d)guarding against the exploitation of the needs or vulnerabilities of a data subject; and
(e)incorporating human intervention to minimize biases that automated decision-making processes may create.
Part VI – NOTIFICATION OF PERSONAL DATA BREACHES
37. Categories of notifiable data breach
(1)For the purpose of section 43 of the Act, a data breach is taken to result in real risk of harm to a data subject if that data breachrelates to —
(a)the data subject’s full name or identification number and any of the personal data or classes of personal data relating to the data subject set out in the Second Schedule; or
(b)the following personal data relating to a data subject’s account with a data controller or data processor—
(i)the data subject’s account identifier, such as an account name or number; and
(ii)any password, security code, access code, response to a security question, biometric data or other data that is used or required to allow access to or use of the individual’s account.
(2)A breach of any personal data envisaged under sub-regulation (1) amounts to notifiable data breach under section 43 of the Act.
(3)The personal data or classes of personal data set out in the Second Schedule excludes —
(a)any personal data that is publicly available; or
(b)any personal data that is disclosed to the extent that is required or permitted under any written law.
(4)The personal data referred to in sub-paragraph (3) (a) shall not be publicly available solely because of any data breach.
38. Notification to Data Commissioner
(1)A notification by data controller to the Data Commissioner of a notifiable data breach under section 43 of the Act shall include—
(a)the date on which and the circumstances in which the data controller or data processor first became aware that the data breach had occurred;
(b)a chronological account of the steps taken by the data controller or data processor after the data controller or data processor became aware that the data breach had occurred, including the data controller or data processor’s assessment that the data breach is a notifiable data breach;
(c)details on how the notifiable data breach occurred, where applicable;
(d)the number of data subjects or other persons affected by the notifiable data breach;
(e)the personal data or classes of personal data affected by the notifiable data breach;
(f)the potential harm to the affected data subjects as a result of the notifiable data breach;
(g)information on any action by the data controller or data processor, whether taken before or to be taken after the data controller or data processor notifies the Data Commissioner of the occurrence of the notifiable data breach to—
(i)eliminate or mitigate any potential harm to any affected data subject or other person as a result of the notifiable data breach; or
(ii)address or remedy any failure or shortcoming that the data controller or data processor believes to have caused, or enabled or facilitated the occurrence of, the notifiable data breach;
(h)the affected individuals or the public that the notifiable data breach has occurred and how an affected data subject may eliminate or mitigate any potential harm as a result of the notifiable data breach; or
(i)contact information of an authorized representative of the data controller or data processor.
(2)Where the data controller intends not to communicate a notifiable data breach to a data subject affected by such breach, under the conditions set out in section 43(1) (b) of the Act, the notification to the Data Commissioner under sub-regulation (1) shall additionally specify the grounds for not notifying the affected data subject.
Part VII – TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE KENYA
39. Interpretation of the Part VII
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires —
(a)“data in transit” means personal data transferred through Kenya in the course of onward transportation to a country or territory outside Kenya, without the personal data being accessed or used by, or disclosed to, any entity while in Kenya, except for the purpose of such transportation;
(b)“recipient” means an entity that receives in a country or territory outside Kenya the personal data transferred to the recipient by or on behalf of the transferring entity, but does not include an entity that receives the personal data solely as a network service provider or carrier;
(c)“transferring entity” means an entity that transfers personal data from Kenya to a country or a territory outside Kenya but does not include an entity dealing with data in transit; and
(d)“relevant international organisation” means an international organisation that carries out functions for any of the law enforcement purposes.
40. General principles for transfers of personal data out of the country
A data controller or data processor who is a transferring entity shall before transferring personal data out of Kenya ascertain that the transfer is based on—
(a)appropriate data protection safeguards;
(b)an adequacy decision made by the Data Commissioner;
(c)transfer as a necessity; or
(d)consent of the data subject.
41. Transfers on the basis of appropriate safeguards
(1)A transfer of personal data to a another country or a relevant international organisation is based on the existence of appropriate safeguards where—
(a)a legal instrument containing appropriate safeguards for the protection of personal data binding the intended recipient that is essentially equivalent to the protection under the Act and these Regulations; or
(b)the data controller, having assessed all the circumstances surrounding transfers of that type of personal data to another country or relevant international organisation, concludes that appropriate safeguards exist to protect the data.
(2)Where a transfer of data takes place in reliance on sub-regulation (1)—
(a)the transfer shall be documented;
(b)the documentation shall be provided to the Commissioner on request; and
(c)the documentation shall include—
(i)the date and time of the transfer;
(ii)the name of the recipient;
(iii)the justification for the transfer; and
(iv)a description of the personal data transferred.
42. Deeming of appropriate safeguards
For the purpose of confirming the existence of appropriate data protection safeguards anticipated under section 49 (1) of the Actand these Regulations, any country or a territory is taken to have such safeguards if that country or territory has—
(a)ratified the African Union Convention on Cyber Security and Personal Data Protection;
(b)a reciprocal data protection agreement with Kenya; or
(c)a contractual binding corporate rules among a concerned group of undertakings or enterprises.
43. Binding corporate rules
(1)The contractual binding corporate rules contemplated under regulation 41 shall be valid if they—
(a)are legally binding and apply to and are enforced by every member concerned of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, including their employees;
(b)expressly confer enforceable rights on data subjects with regard to the processing of their personal data; and
(c)fulfil the requirements laid down in sub-regulation (2).
(2)The binding corporate rules referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall specify—
(a)the structure and contact details of the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity and of each of its members;
(b)the data transfers or set of transfers, including the categories of personal data, the type of processing and its purposes, the type of data subjects affected and the identification of another country or countries in question;
(c)their legally binding nature, both internally and externally;
(d)the application of the general data protection principles;
(e)the rights of data subjects in regard to processing and the means to exercise those rights;
(f)the complaint procedures; and
(g)the mechanisms within the group of undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity for ensuring the verification of compliance with the binding corporate rules.
44. Transfers on the basis of an adequacy decision
(1)A transfer of personal data to another country or a relevant international organization is based on an adequacy decision where the Data Commissioner makes a decision that—
(a)the other country or a territory or one or more specified sectors within that other country, or
(b)the international organization, ensures an adequate level of protection of personal data.
(2)The Data Commissioner may publish on its website a list of the countries, territories and specified sectors within that other country and relevant international organisation for which the Data Commissioner has made a decision that an adequate level of protection is ensured.
45. Transfers on the basis of necessity
(1)Personal data may be transferred to another country or territory on the basis of necessity is such a transfer is necessary for any of the purpose outlined under section 48 (c) of the Act.
(2)Prior to making a transfer under sub-regulation (1), a transferring entity shall ascertain that—
(a)that the transfer is strictly necessary in a specific case outlined under section 48(c) of the Act;
(b)there are no fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject concerned that override the public interest necessitating the transfer.
(3)This section does not affect the operation of any international agreement in force between Kenya and other countries in the field of judicial co-operation in criminal matters and police co-operation.
46. Transfer on basis of consent.
(1)In accordance with section 25 (g) of the Act, in the absence of an adequacy decision, appropriate safeguards or prerequisites for transfer as a necessity, a transfer or a set of transfers of personal data to another country shall take place only on the condition that the data subject—
(a)has explicitly consented to the proposed transfer; and
(b)has been informed of the possible risks of such transfers.
(2)Without limiting the generality of sub-regulation (1), a data controller or processor must seek consent from a data subject for the transfer of sensitive personal data, in accordance with section 49 of the Act.
47. Subsequent transfers.
(1)Where personal data is transferred in accordance with this Part, the entity effecting the transfer shall make it a condition of the transfer, that the data is not to be further transferred to another country or territory without the authorisation of the transferring entity or another competent authority.
(2)A competent authority may give an authorisation under sub-regulation (1) only where the further transfer is necessary for a law enforcement purpose.
48. Provisions for the agreement to cross boarder transfer
A transferring entity may enter into a written agreement with the recipient of personal data, which shall contain provisions relating to—
(a)unlimited access by the transferring entity to ascertain the existence of a robust information system of the recipient for storing the personal data; and
(b)the countries and territories to which the personal data may be transferred under the contract.
Part VIII – DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT
49. Processing activities requiring data protection impact assessment
(1)For the purpose of section 31 (1) of the Act, processing operations considered to result in high risks to the rights and freedoms of a data subject include —
(a)automated decision making with legal or similar significant effect that includes the use of profiling or algorithmic means or use of sensitive personal data as an element to determine access to services or that results in legal or similarly significant effects;
(b)use of personal data on a large-scale for a purpose other than that for which the data was initially collected;
(c)processing biometric or genetic data;
(d)where there is a change in any aspect of the processing that may result in higher risk to data subjects;
(e)processing sensitive personal data or data relating to children or vulnerable groups;
(f)combining, linking or cross-referencing separate datasets where the data sets are combined from different sources and where processing is carried out for different purposes;
(g)large scale processing of personal data;
(h)a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale;
(i)innovative use or application of new technological or organizational solutions; or
(j)where the processing prevents a data subject from exercising a right.
(2)A data processor or data controller shall, prior to processing data under sub-regulation (1) conduct a data protection impact assessment.
50. Conduct of data protection impact assessment
(1)Where a data protection impact assessment is required, a data controller or data processor may conduct the assessment through a template set out in the Third Schedule.
(2)Despite sub-regulation (1), a format of the data protection impact assessment may be varied by the Data Commissioner through guidance notes as may be issued from time to time.
51. Prior consultation
(1)In accordance with section 31 (3) of the Act, where a data controller or a data processor is required to consult the Data Commissioner on the data protection impact assessment prior to processing, such consultations shall be done within sixty days from the date of the receipt of the impact statement report.
(2)In making a request under sub-regulation (1), the data controller or data processor shall provide—
(a)the data protection impact assessment prepared under section 31(1) of the Act; and
(b)where applicable, the respective responsibilities of the data controller or data processors involved in the processing.
(3)Where the Data Commissioner considers that the intended processing is likely to infringe on the Act or these Regulations, the Data Commissioner may issue such advice to the data controller or the data processor, in writing.
52. Consideration of the data protection impact assessment report
(1)In conducting a data protection impact assessment, a data controller or a data processor may consult the Office for advice on whether risks identified and mitigation measures suggested are viable in the outlined circumstances.
(2)In reviewing the data protection impact assessment report, the Data Commissioner may make any recommendations to be incorporated prior to commencing the processing operations.
(3)Where a data controller or data processor, upon submitting the data protection impact assessment report to the Data Commissioner, does not receive any communication within sixty days of submission, may commence processing operations and the assessment report shall be taken to have been approved.
(4)A data controller or data processor may publish on its website the data protection impact assessment Report.
53. Audit of compliance with Assessment Report
Pursuant to section 23 of the Act, the Data Commissioner may carry out periodic audits to monitor compliance with the Assessment Report and any recommendations that may have been provided by the Data Commissioner.
Part IX – PROVISIONS ON EXEMPTIONS UNDER THE ACT
54. Exemption for national security
(1)For the purposes of section 51(2) (b) of the Act, the processing of personal data by a national security organ referred to in Article 239 (1) of the Constitution in furtherance of their mandate constitutes a processing for national security.
(2)Despite sub-regulation (1), a data controller or data processor who processes personal data for national security and wishes to be exempt on that ground shall apply to the Cabinet Secretary for an exemption.
(3)The Cabinet Secretary shall, upon being satisfied that the grounds supporting the application are sufficient, issue a certificate of exemption.
(4)The Cabinet Secretary may revoke a certificate of exemption issued, at any time, where the grounds on which the certificate was issued no longer apply.
55. Exemptions for public interest
For the purposes of section 51(2) (b) of the Act, the processing of personal data is exempted from the Act on the grounds of public interest where such processing exists as a—
(a)permitted general situation; or
(b)permitted health situation.
56. Permitted general situation
A permitted general situation referred to under regulation 55 (a) relates to the collection, use or disclosure by a data controller or data processor of personal data about data subject including for—
(a)lessening or preventing a serious threat to the life, health or safety of any data subject, or to public health or safety;
(b)taking appropriate action in relation to suspected unlawful activity or serious misconduct;
(c)locating a person reported as missing;
(d)asserting a legal or equitable claim;
(e)conducting an alternative dispute resolution process; or
(f)performing diplomatic or consular duties.
57. Permitted health situation
(1)A permitted health situation referred to under regulation 55 (b) relates to the collection, use or disclosure by a data controller or data processor of personal data about a data subject, including for—
(a)the collection of health information to provide a health service;
(b)the collection, use, or disclosure of health data is for health research and related purposes;
(c)the use or disclosure of genetic information where necessary and obtained in course of providing a health service;
(d)the disclosure of health information for a secondary purpose to a responsible person for a data subject.
(2)A permitted health situation under sub-regulation (1) applies where a data controller or data processor discloses health data about a data subject, and—
(a)they provide a health service to the data subject;
(b)the recipient of the personal data is a responsible person for the data subject;
(c)a data subject is either physically or legally incapable of giving consent to the disclosure, or physically cannot communicate consent to the disclosure;
(d)the disclosure is necessary to provide appropriate care or treatment of a data subject, or the disclosure is made for compassionate reasons;
(e)the disclosure is not contrary to any wish expressed by the data subject before the data subject became unable to give or communicate consent of which the carer is aware or of which the carer could reasonably be expected to be aware; and
(f)the disclosure is limited to the extent reasonable and necessary to provide appropriate care or treatment of the individual or to fulfil the purpose of making a disclosure for compassionate reasons.
Part X – GENERAL PROVISIONS
58. Complaints against data controller and data processor
A person aggrieved by a decision of a data controller or a data processor under this Regulation or non-compliance with any provision may lodge a complaint with the Data Commissioner in accordance with the Act and regulations on complaints handling made thereunder.